# Simple Wind Simulator for GP Wind Estimation

The proposed is a wind simulator developed to test the applicability of Gaussian process Regression to estimate the wind forces acting on an object in a wind field.

## System Description
The parameters of the simulation are contained inside the $\verb|config|$ folder:
- The $\verb|mass.json|$ file constains the descritpion of the object moving in the wind field. The body is described as a sphere of radius `r` and mass `m`, and initial velocites `v0x` and `v0y`. The initial position of the object is inferred from the path it has to follow. The surface of the object hit by the wind is assumed to be half the surface of the sphere: $A=\frac{1}{2}(4\pi r^2)$.
- The $\verb|wind_field.json|$ file contains the description of the wind field and some simulation parameters, in particular:
    - `height` and `width` specify the size of the wind field.
    - `duration` and `dt` specify the number of iteration the system is simulated for, and the sampling time. 
    - `air_density` ($\rho$) is the density of the air, used to compute the wind force acting on the body moving in the field.
    - `fans` is a vector containing the fans generating the wind, each fan is described by:
        - `x0` and `y0`, which specify the fan positioning
        - `alpha` ($\alpha$) is the rotation angle of the fan, around the $z$-axis, with respect to the array $u=[1,0]^{\text{T}}$.
        - `theta` ($\theta$) is the spread of the cone describing the area of wind generation for the fan
        - `v0` is the wind speed at the center of the generaion cone
        - `noise_var` ($\sigma^2_w$) is the variance on the generated wind

    The wind speed generated by a fan in position $(x,y)$ is given by
    $$
    \vec{V_{i}}(x,y) = \left\{
        \begin{array}{ll}
            \frac{\vec{V}_{0}}{1+d^2}+\mathcal{N}(\mathbf{0},\sigma^2\mathbf{I})&\text{if }(x,y)\in\mathcal{C}\\\\
            \vec{0}&\text{otherwise}
        \end{array}
    \right.
    $$
    where $d$ is the euclidean distance between $(x,y)$ and the position of the fan, and $\mathcal{C}$ is the area inside the wind cone of the fan.
    The resulting total wind speed $\vec{V}_{w_{tot}}$ is just the sum of the individual wind speeds at positio $(x,y)$.

    The force acting on the object is
    $$
    \vec{F}_{w}(x,y)=\frac{1}{2}\rho A\vec{V}_{w_{tot}}^2
    $$

- $\verb|wind_field_test.json|$ describes the wind field used to test the GP predictions. The description is identical as the one before.

## Running the Simulation
### Training Data Generation
